# simulate_and_recover

This project is a simulate and recover program that runs the EZ diffusion model. The EZ diffusion model is a simpler model of the drift diffusion model, which analyzes data in decision-making. 
By creating this program, the goal is to find out if the EZ diffusion model can accurately estimate its own parameters. 

The program works with three sample sizes: N = 10, N = 40, and N = 4000. The given parameters were drift rate, boundary separation, and nondecision time. The program randomly generates reaction time and accuracy data with the given forward equations in the slides. Then, they place them in results_N{}.txt files. 
Then, using the forward equations given in the slides, the program calculates the predicted accuracy, predicted mean RT, and predicted RT variance. Observed statistics is then used to account for randomness, with binominal, normal, and gamma distribution. The given inverse equations (v^est, a^est, and t^est) are used to estimate the original parameters once the observed statistics are given (R^obs, M^obs, and V^obs). This data is put into recovered_results_N{}.txt files. Simulating the data and recovering the parameters is repeated 1000 times for each sample size, resulting in 3000 iterations. 

The actual program works with the simulate.py and recover.py files in the src folder, and the test_simulation.py file in the test folder. The simulate.py file generates the data with the forward equations, while the recover.py file recovers the parameters with the inverse equations. The bash script (main.sh) runs the simulation. Once that’s done, the test_simulation.py file, which makes sure that the equations are consistent, runs with its bash script (test.sh). Other files are the requirements.txt file that lists the necessary libraries (numpy and scipy). The files that are created by these programs are the results and the results of the recovery simulation. This all comes together to create the simulate_and_recover program. 

The results of this simulate and recover program were that the smaller sample sizes had high variability and larger bias, while larger sample sizes had low variability and smaller bias. Additionally, bias and the Mean Squared Error would decrease when N was greater, further proving that a larger sample size led to lower error and bias. Overall, having high sample values led to greater accuracy and consistency. 

What can be concluded from these results is that the EZ diffusion model can accurately estimate its parameters, but this is only when sample sizes are quite large. Having a large sample size is correlated to accuracy, as it obtains data from a wide variety of samples that help lead to more detailed and accurate results. We can learn from this project and findings; models that are used for science depend on even the smallest of changes to be accurate and ensure that the right information is being projected. It is imperative that we continue to strive to learn and improve on our scientific models to be certain that the information we discover is as correct as can be. 
